dear Apple the iPad needs help let me
explain about a month ago Apple launched
the new iPad Pro and I spent over $3,000
ordering the fully speced out one for
myself I was so excited I thought oh my
God the iPad is now more powerful than I
could ever possibly need this can be my
sketchpad my laptop my Netflix device my
gaming machine I can do all of my
Computing on this one tablet that's
barely 5 mm thin and you know what I was
right at least about that part I'll
never forget my first day setting up
this iPad I was in absolute awe my whole
plan was to see if I could use this to
replace my big
chunky 16-in MacBook Pro kind of proves
the point and so I was one by one going
through all the things that I did on
this and setting them up here and
basically everything just worked every
account login took seconds thanks to
Apple's keychain password memory and
face ID the fact that the iPad has face
ID where the Mac still doesn't meant
that I barely needed to lift a finger
and everything was set up but also you
know how Apple constantly describes his
iPad as a magic sheet of glass yeah I
know the marketing talk is crazy but in
a way that quote finally made sense to
me on this day the screen feels like it
should not be as bright as it is
considering how thin the iPad is the
thumb rejection how you can grip the
thing in one hand and scroll with the
other and the touchcreen understands
what you're doing and ignores your thumb
it does feel like magic and most
importantly it doesn't matter which way
you're using it you can rotate any
orientation you want and the bezels are
completely even whichever way you pick
face ID Works in any orientation but
also volume buttons I realize that they
flip so when you hold the iPad this way
left turns your volume down right turns
it up but then when you rotate the iPad
180° the buttons remap themselves so
that from your perspective left is still
volume down right is still volume up I'd
assumed it might be slower than my maxed
out MacBook Pro and I mean look at the
chunk difference would you be surprised
but it isn't it is so fast I thought I'd
have difficulties with battery life
barely the battery while definitely not
as good as a MacBook Pro is still better
than what you get on most laptops I love
the fact that my main computer would
actually have cellular data now and I
did initially think this was going to be
some Next Level monthly expense but
turns out prepaid dataon eims they're
actually okay I found a plan that's
going to cost me £100 for my hopefully
years worth of data usage I even jumped
into some video calls and I was just
like what this webcam is amazing it's
crisp it's flattering but also it has
Center Stage which means just like those
actually physically rotating webcams you
can buy it follows you around the room
and actually keeps you in the center oh
yeah and the games if you're someone who
plays a lot of games on your phone let
me tell you they hit very different on
an iPad you're getting like the biggest
brightest clearest picture possible not
to mention that you will not have to
worry about performance this thing
absolutely eats mobile games for
breakfast so in case you can't already
tell I was initially in love with this
thing so where on Earth did it go wrong
well day two when I actually started
trying to do some proper work on it I
woke up I plugged it into my monitor
like I've been doing for years with my
laptop and I settled into my desk for a
good day's research um Mr cook my mouse
was not working wow for years I've been
using logitech's very good MX Master
mouse that works perfectly on maap and
for some reason I'm getting to the Y
later but for some reason it was
performing terribly the scroll wheel was
incredibly laggy and unresponsive like
unusably so so I was having to scroll by
clicking and dragging across the page
like some Unstoppable but to top
it all off I keep disconnecting I spent
half of my first working day trying to
troubleshoot my mouse trying all sorts
of other options and eventually coming
to the conclusion that okay there's one
accessory that probably will work well
on this Apple's Magic Mouse so I ordered
one it arrived and you know what yes yes
it does it works perfectly but let me
tell you the ergonomics of this mouse
are anything but Magic it's super flat
it's kind of sharp and it still requires
you to Arch your fingers to use it like
a trackpad instead of having a much more
hand-friendly scroll wheel I've actually
had quite a few issues with my hands
from long periods of time clawing like
this it's not good for you but what
choice did I have so can you imagine my
reaction when I realized that the same
thing was happening to my keyboard it
honestly felt like a cartoonish problem
to be having in this day and age but
sometimes my space bar just randomly
started inserting two space spes each
time but where still it would very often
just stop typing and you know me I don't
normally rage at things but this really
started to tick me off and again zero
issues with the Mac but for some reason
the iPad is extremely unreliable with
third party Bluetooth accessories okay
so rough start but then it got worse and
then I started to notice a pattern cuz
the next thing that I tried was
screenshots you know it's only on this
iPad that I've realized how much I rely
on screenshots because look at this if
you're on a Mac and you want to send
someone what you're looking at you tap a
few buttons you select the area you want
to share and then just drag and drop
that file over to whoever you're sending
it to on the iPad you press the same
buttons and for some bizarre reason you
just can't instead the iPad takes a
screenshot of not just the screen you're
on but also any screen you're connected
to and it takes the whole thing so every
single time you have to delete one of
the screenshots and then manually use
the touch screen to resize Each corner
of the second one till you have what you
want and then the dragging and dring too
like 50% of the time that doesn't work
either as each app is siloed with its
own set of rules for how you add files
to them actually you know what let me
just rapid fire through the plethora of
unnecessary issues that I've had with
this iPad and then I'll explain why I
think it's happening for example you
can't rearrange your Safari favorites by
just dragging you instead have to go
into a convoluted separate side menu
your favorites bar disappears when you
scroll down web pages meaning that every
single time you want to go to one of
your favorites you first have to either
scroll P back up or move your cursor to
the top of the screen before you can
click them you don't actually get a
mouse pointer you get a mouse blob that
sort of snaps onto things so it's quite
a bit less precise than using a Mac and
it makes navigating to that subscribe
button that bit more difficult so if
you're not using an iPad right now then
a sub to the channel would be smooth
some websites don't work the iPad seems
to get very confused between virtual
keyboards and physical keyboards and
sometimes just decides to give you
neither there's no progress bars when
you're transferring or opening files so
you're just left there waiting until
something suddenly appears when it's
eventually done or should I say actually
if it's done because the software is
much more aggressive with shutting down
background processes than a normal
computer so sometimes Amazon purchases
for example they don't go through un th
I keep the window open while they're
processing and there are uploads that I
left going on in the background that I
later realized silently canceled
themselves apps sometimes behave in
really unintuitive ways like for example
when you're WR wrting documents in your
web browser the iPad teaches you that a
double tap highlights your word and then
a triple tap highlights your paragraph
but then using the Docs app it does
something completely different and
actually expects you to fiddle with a
trackpad trying to grab and drag this
across many apps are really surprisingly
poorly formatted for iPad and don't even
get me started on the Instagram app or
the fact that there's no official
calculator so you have to resort to
downloading someone else's and having a
permanent ad stapled across it
multitasking isn't very good within your
apps like if I want to type out a new
email while looking at another one that
I previously sent a while ago you
actually can't do that using the Gmail
app so you end up then having to use
multiple different tabs of Gmail in your
browser you know the same way that you
would on your Mac but then that kind of
defeats the main benefit of having these
apps that are specifically designed and
optimized around this mobile operating
system oh yeah and the desktop is way
less flexible than a Mac the iPad does
not give you the tools required to be
able to use its massive space very well
at all the thing in common with all of
these issues they are EX extremely
fixable with this iPad Apple created a
brand new superpowered chip they made it
so unbelievably thin they upgraded the
apple pencil to a whole other level it's
all really cool stuff but the thing
that's upsetting me is that if instead
they just done none of that and
literally spent like one week instead
fixing these software quirks this will
be a better product that the pros
they're so fervently marketing to can
actually use as their main computers
what I'm imagining is happening here is
because Apple also sells the Mac the
single product that is most at risk of
eating into that it's not Windows
laptops at this stage it is Apple's own
iPad so they're stuck in this weird
place of every year making the iPad more
Pro but not actually addressing the core
things that would allow Pros to rely on
it requiring them to still get a Macbook
even though the hardware of this can
almost definitely do absolutely
everything they want it to I'm getting
to that there's a few more baked in iPad
issues that would be harder for Apple to
fix like how this screen gets way more
fingerprint than a Mac screen since it's
designed around you touching it how the
speakers shoot outwards instead of
forwards like they do on a Mac so the
audio isn't as crisp and that with the
magic keyboard the iPad is extremely
topheavy for a laptop so while it's fine
on a desk it doesn't feel nearly as
stable in your lap but for me these are
smaller issues that I could learn to
live with so what am I going to do with
this am I returning mine no I still love
it in small moments it does frustrate me
to high heaven and I do not understand
how Apple thinks this magnet is an
acceptable way to keep your very
expensive apple pencil Pro it needs some
sort of latch otherwise it's so easy to
lose you have to keep it in a bag but
then when this thing works the way you
want it to it feels like such a life
hack so this is what I'm doing the iPad
has become my travel computer anytime I
leave the house for a day I detach this
from the keyboard and this is everything
I need because I know that if I really
want to I will be able to do any
Computing that I might need to on short
notice and then if I'm going abroad I
will pack this keyboard too because
these two together is 95% of the laptop
experience and in ways better because
the iPad is like so good for watching
movies on the plane and the only only
reason why I can't just completely ditch
my MacBook Pro is just these weird
limitations when you're trying to use it
as a desktop computer so for that one
specific use case I am still going to
have to keep the Mac I'll just leave it
permanently docked at the table so let's
see if Apple fixes any of these cons at
their next big software WWDC event now
while we do a little iPad camera test I
want to tell you about something that
I've started using all the time anytime
you're logging into one of those public
Wi-Fi and they're asking for your entire
life history or just giving your details
to a website that you don't completely
trust for all of this I have just
started using an alternate ID I'm not
even kidding you might know me as Aaron
manie but online I'm technically Emily
I've been using surf shark's bakedin
altern ID feature and it's amazing it
creates every single detail you could
possibly need to fill out a form
including an email address that you can
actually use for as long or as short as
you want to and it means that you can
have a consistent online Persona that
you can copy and paste into any form in
one click that's not actually you by
default the new email that's set up for
you will automatically forward emails
that come in to your main email but the
beauty of that is the second you decide
that you no longer need the service that
you signed up for you just cut that
email and you have that peaceful
reassurance that you've never actually
shared your main email address and
that's just one thing there's like 15
different reasons why I use surf Shar
VPN like also just the fact that it's a
VPN and I think it's the best VPN it's
fast the app is awesome and it's really
affordable because with the code boss
it's literally less than $3 a month with
four extra months for free for an
unlimited number of users and a 30-day
money back guarantee and so yeah the
camera is definitely a step down from
the iPhone but it's not bad